.\"
.\" $XFree86$
.\"
.\" Copyright ｩ 2000 Keith Packard, member of The XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of Keith Packard not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
.\" specific, written prior permission.  Keith Packard makes no
.\" representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It
.\" is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" KEITH PACKARD DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
.\" EVENT SHALL KEITH PACKARD BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
.\" TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..
.TH XFT 3 "Version 1.0" "XFree86"

.SH NAME
 XFT \- X FreeType interface library

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xft
is a simple library designed to interface the FreeType rasterizer with the X
Rendering Extension.  This manual page barely scratches the surface of this
library.

.SH DATATYPES

.B XftFont
is an opaque pointer to a font object containing references to both the X
server GlyphSet and the FreeType outline data.

.B XftFontName
contains matching information for accessing fonts.  Each field is matched
with a bit in the mask indicating whether that field has valid data.

.Ds 0
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
typedef struct _XftFontName {
	unsigned long	mask;
	char	*face;
	char	*encoding;
	char	*file;
	int	size;
	int	rotation;
	int	spacing;
} XftFontName;

#define XftFontNameFace	    0x1
#define XftFontNameEncoding 0x2
#define XftFontNameFile	    0x4
#define XftFontNameSize	    0x8
#define XftFontNameRotation 0x10
#define XftFontNameSpacing  0x20

#define XftFontSpacingAny   0
#define XftFontSpacingMono  1
#define XftFontSpacingCell  2

.SH FUNCTIONS
XftFont	*
XftLoadFont (Display *dpy, XftFontName *name);

void
XftFreeFont (Display *dpy, XftFont *font);

int
XftFontAscent(Display *dpy, XftFont *font);

int
XftFontDescent(Display *dpy, XftFont *font);

int
XftFontHeight(Display *dpy, XftFont *font);

int
XftFontMaxAdvanceWidth (Display *dpy, XftFont *font);
    
void
XftExtentsString (Display	*dpy,
		  XftFont	*font,
		  unsigned char	*string, 
		  int		len,
		  XGlyphInfo	*extents);

void
XftDrawString (Display	*dpy,
	       Picture	 src,
	       XftFont	*font,
	       Picture	dst,
	       int	srcx,
	       int	srcy,
	       int	x,
	       int	y,
	       char	*string,
	       int	len);

.SH XftConfig
The 
.B XftConfig
file contains instructions for converting an XftFontName structure into
a usable set of glyphs.  XftFontNames are refined through a series of
matching and editing steps.

ents	:	ents ent
	|
	;
ent	:	edit
	|	path
	|	dir
	;
edit	:	MATCH patterns EDIT patterns
	;
patterns:	pattern patterns
	|
	;
pattern	:	FACE EQUAL STRING
	|	ENCODING EQUAL STRING
	|	FILE EQUAL STRING
	|	SIZE EQUAL NUMBER
	|	ROTATION EQUAL NUMBER
	|	SPACING EQUAL NUMBER
	;
path	:	PATH STRING
	;
dir	:	DIR STRING
	;


.SH RESTRICTIONS
.B Xft
will probably change radically in the future; weak attempts will be made to
retain some level of source-file compatibility.

.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard, member of the XFree86 Project, Inc.
