.\" $XConsortium: xedit.man,v 1.23 94/04/17 20:43:39 matt Exp $
.\" Copyright (c) 1994  X Consortium
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xedit/xedit.man,v 1.3 1998/11/15 11:11:19 dawes Exp $
.\"
.TH XEDIT 1 "Release 6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xedit \- simple text editor for X
.SH SYNTAX
.B xedit
[
.I \-toolkitoption
\&.\|.\|. ] [
.I filename
\&.\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xedit
provides a window consisting of the following four areas:
.IP "Commands Section" 25
A set of commands that allow you to exit \fIxedit\fP, save the file, or
load a new file into the edit window.
.IP "Message Window" 25
Displays \fIxedit\fP messages. In addition, this window can be also used as
a scratch pad. 
.IP "Filename Display"
Displays the name of the file currently being edited, and whether this file
is \fIRead-Write\fP or \fIRead Only\fP.
.IP "Edit Window" 25
Displays the text of the file that you are editing or creating.  
.SH OPTIONS
.I Xedit
accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line
options (see
.IR X (1)).
The order of the command line options is not important.
.TP 8
.I filename
Specifies the file(s) that are to be loaded during start-up. This is the
file which will be edited. If a file is not specified,
.I xedit
lets you load files or create new files after it has started up.
.SH EDITING
The Athena Text widget is used for the three sections of this
application that allow text input.  The characters typed will go to
the Text widget that has the input focus, or the Text widget that the pointer
cursor is currently over.
.PP

The following keystroke combinations are defined:
.sp
.nf
.ta 1.0i 3.0i 4.5i
Ctrl-a	Beginning Of Line	Meta-b	Backward Word
Ctrl-b	Backward Character	Meta-f	Forward Word
Ctrl-d	Delete Next Character	Meta-i	Insert File
Ctrl-e	End Of Line	Meta-k	Kill To End Of Paragraph
Ctrl-f	Forward Character	Meta-q	Form Paragraph
Ctrl-g	Keyboard Reset	Meta-v	Previous Page
Ctrl-h	Delete Previous Character	Meta-y	Insert Current Selection
Ctrl-j	Newline And Indent	Meta-z	Scroll One Line Down
Ctrl-k	Kill To End Of Line	Meta-d	Delete Next Word
Ctrl-l	Redraw Display	Meta-D	Kill Word
Ctrl-m	Newline	Meta-h	Delete Previous Word
Ctrl-n	Next Line	Meta-H	Backward Kill Word
Ctrl-o	Newline And Backup	Meta-<	Beginning Of File
Ctrl-p	Previous Line	Meta->	End Of File
Ctrl-r	Search/Replace Backward	Meta-]	Forward Paragraph
Ctrl-s	Search/Replace Forward	Meta-[	Backward Paragraph
Ctrl-t	Transpose Characters
Ctrl-u [\fInumber\fP]	Multiply by 4 or \fInumber\fP	Meta-Delete	Delete Previous Word
Ctrl-v	Next Page	Meta-Shift Delete	Kill Previous Word
Ctrl-w	Kill Selection	Meta-Backspace	Delete Previous Word
Ctrl-y	Unkill	Meta-Shift Backspace	Kill Previous Word
Ctrl-z	Scroll One Line Up	Meta-z	Scroll One Line Down
Ctrl-_	Undo
.sp
In addition, the pointer may be used to cut and paste text:
.ta .5i 2.0i
	Button 1 Down	Start Selection
	Button 1 Motion	Adjust Selection
	Button 1 Up	End Selection (cut)

	Button 2 Down	Insert Current Selection (paste)

	Button 3 Down	Extend Current Selection
	Button 3 Motion	Adjust Selection
	Button 3 Up	End Selection (cut)
.fi
.sp
.SH COMMANDS
.IP Quit 8
Quits the current editing session. If any changes have not been saved,
.I xedit 
displays a warning message, allowing the user to save them.
.IP Save 
If file backups are enabled (see RESOURCES, below)
.I xedit
stores a copy of the
original, unedited file in <prefix>\fIfile\fP<suffix>,
then overwrites the \fIfile\fP with the contents of the edit window.  The
filename is retrieved from the Text widget directly to the right of
the \fILoad\fP button.
.IP Load
Loads the file named in the text widget immediately to the right
of the this button and displays it in the Edit window.
.SH RESOURCES
For \fIxedit\fP the available resources are:
.TP 8
.B enableBackups (\fPClass\fB EnableBackups)
Specifies that, when edits made to an existing file are saved,
.I xedit
is to copy the original version of that file to <prefix>\fIfile\fP<suffix>
before it saves the changes.  The default value for this resource is
``on,'' stating that backups should be created.
.TP 8
.B backupNamePrefix (\fPClass\fB BackupNamePrefix)
Specifies a string that is to be prepended to the backup filename.  The
default is that no string shall be prepended.
.TP 8
.B backupNameSuffix (\fPClass\fB BackupNameSuffix)
Specifies a string that is to be appended to the backup filename.  The
default is to use ``~'' as the suffix.
.TP 8
.B positionFormat (\fPClass\fB Format)
Specifies a format string used to display the cursor position.  This
string uses printf(3) like notation, where
.B %l
prints the line number,
.B %c
prints the column number,
.B %p
prints the insert position offset, and
.B %s
prints the current file size.  It is also allowed to specifie field sizes,
with the notation
.B %\-?[0\-9]+
\&.  The default format string is ``L%l'', which shows the character ``L''
followed by the line number.
.TP 8
.B hints (\fPClass\fB Hints)
Specifies a list of strings, separated by new lines, that will be
displayed in the bc_label window.
.TP 8
.B hintsInterval (\fPClass \fBInterval)
Specifies the interval in seconds, which the hint string in the bc_label
window will be changed.
.TP 8
.B changedBitmap (\fPClass \fBChanged)
Specifies the name of the Bitmap that will be displayed in the fileMenu, when
the file being edited is changed.
.SH WIDGETS
In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of
the widgets which compose \fIxedit\fR.  In the notation below,
indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  The widget class name
is given first, followed by the widget instance name.
.sp
.nf
.ta .5i 1.0i 1.5i 2.0i
Xedit  xedit
	Paned  paned
		Paned  buttons
			Command  quit
			Command  save
			Command  load
			Text     filename
		Label  bc_label
		Text   messageWindow
		Label  labelWindow
		Text   editWindow
.fi
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 20
.I DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 20
.I XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.I <XRoot>/lib/X11/app-defaults/Xedit
specifies required resources
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR X (1),
.IR xrdb (1),
.I "Athena Widget Set"
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Xedit is not a replacement to Emacs.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.br
Copyright 1989, X Consortium
.br
Copyright 1998, The XFree86 Project
.br
See
.IR X (1)
for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Chris D. Peterson, MIT X Consortium
.br
Paulo Cesar Pereira de Andrade, The XFree86 Project
