.\" Copyright 1999  by The XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\" 
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE XFREE86 PROJECT BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of The XFree86 Project shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from The XFree86 Project.
.TH xgamma 1 "Release 6.4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xgamma - Alter a monitor's gamma correction for XFree86
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xgamma"
[-display \fIdisplay\fP] [-gamma f.f | [[-rgamma f.f] [-ggamma f.f]
[-bgamma f.f]]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B xgamma
allows X users query and alter the gamma correction of a monitor via
the XFree86 X server video mode extension (XFree86-VidModeExtension).
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-display \fIdisplay\fP"
This argument allows you to specify the server to connect to; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-help"
Print out the `Usage:' command syntax summary.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-gamma f.f"
The gamma correction can either be defined as a single value, or
separately for the red, green and blue components. This argument
specifies the gamma correction as a single value. If no value for
the gamma correction is given
.B xgamma
returns the current gamma correction of the display.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-rgamma f.f"
This argument specifies the red compinent of the gamma correction.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-ggamma f.f"
This argument specifies the green compinent of the gamma correction.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-bgamma f.f"
This argument specifies the blue compinent of the gamma correction.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To get default host and display number.
.SH BUGS
.PP
This client changes the internal values of the gamma correction for the
Xserver. Whether or not these values are respected depends on the video
drivers.
.PP
The gamma values are passed to the Xserver with 3 decimal places of
accuracy.
.SH SEE ALSO
xvidtune(1)
.SH AUTHORS
Kaleb S. Keithley, X Consortium.
.br
David Dawes, David Bateman
