.\"
.\" $XFree86: xc/lib/Xrandr/Xrandr.man,v 1.6 2003/06/12 14:12:28 eich Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Apple Computer, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sub license, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
.\" next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions
.\" of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL PRECISION INSIGHT AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
.\" SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..
.TH APPLEWM 3 "Version 1.0" "XFree86"

.SH NAME
 AppleWM \- Apple rootless window management extension.
.SH SYNTAX
\&#include <X11/extensions/applewm.h>
.br
\&#include <X11/extensions/applewmstr.h>
.nf    
.sp
List of functions will go here.
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B AppleWM
is a simple library designed to interface with the Apple-WM extension.
This extension allows X window managers to better interact with
the Mac OS X Aqua user interface when running X11 in a rootless mode.
.PP
A more complete description will be forthcoming eventually.

.SH FUNCTIONS
Detailed description of functions will go here.

.SH RESTRICTIONS
.B AppleWM
is only intended to be used on Mac OS X when running a rootless X server.
