.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 by The XFree86 Project, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"  
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE XFREE86 PROJECT BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the XFree86 Project shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other
.\" dealings in this Software without prior written authorization from the
.\" XFree86 Project.
.\"
.\" Author: Paulo César Pereira de Andrade
.\"
.\" $XFree86$
.\"
.TH XAW 3 "Version 3.9" "XFree86"

.SH NAME
 XAW \- X Athena Widgets

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xaw
is a Widget set based on the Xt Intrinsics.  This manual page describes the
XFree86 additions and modifications to the Xaw library,  as well as some of
the common interfaces.

.SH ACTIONS
All the \fIXaw\fR widgets now have the additional translations
.B call-proc, declare, get-values
and  \fBset-values\fP. The syntax for these actions is:
.br
.I action-name(boolean-expression, arguments)
.br
\fBAction-name\fP is one of \fIcall-proc\fP, \fIdeclare\fP,
\fIget-values\fP or \fIset-values\fP.
.br
\fBBoolean-expression\fP is composed with the operators \fI|\fR (or), \fI&\fR
(and), \fI^\fR (xor), and \fI~\fR (not). The operands can be a variable name,
that starts with a \fI$\fR; a resource name without the bindings \fI.\fP
and \fI*\fP; or a constant name, including \fImine\fP (event->xany.window
== XtWindow(widget)), \fIfaked\fP (event->xany.send_event != 0), \fItrue\fP (1)
and \fIfalse\fP (0).
.br
\fBArguments\fP are self explanatory, when starting with a \fI$\fP they name
a variable, else, a resource name.
.TP 8
.B call-proc
This action allows the evaluation of a boolean expression, in the first
parameter, before calling a action procedure. Only if the expression resolves
to true the procedure is called. Example:
.br
.I call-proc("$inside & $pressed", notify)
.TP 8
.B declare
This action, like \fIget-values\fP is used to create new variables, or
change their value. Example:
.br
.I declare(1, $pressed, 1)
.TP 8
.B get-values
This actions allows reading a resource value into a variable.
Example:
.br
.I get-values(1, $fg, foreground, $bg, background)
.TP 8
.B set-values
This action allow setting a resource in the widget. Example:
.br
.I set-values(1, foreground, $bg, background, $fg)

.PP
Sample translation to make a label widget behave like a button:
.nf
<Map>:      get-values(1, $fg, foreground, $bg, background)\\n\\
<Btn1Down>: set-values(1, foreground, yellow, background, gray30)\\n\\
<Btn1Up>:   set-values(1, foreground, $fg, background, $bg)
.fi

.SH DISPLAY LISTS
All the \fBXaw\fP widgets have now the additional resource \fIdisplayList\fP.
This resource allows drawing the widget decorations with commands embedded
in the resource string.
The displayList resource has the syntax:
.br
\fI[class-name:]function-name arguments[[{;\\n}]...]\fP
.br
\fBClass-name\fP is any registered set of function to draw in the widget.
Currently the only existing class is \fIxlib\fP.
.br
\fBFunction-name\fP is the drawing or configuration function to be called,
described bellow.
.br
\fBArguments\fP may be anything suitable to the displayList function being
called. When the function requires a coordinate, the syntax is
\fI{+-}<integer>\fP or \fI<integer>/<integer>\fP. Examples:
.nf
	+0,+0      top, left
	-0,-0      bottom, right
	-+10,-+10  bottom+10, right+10
	+0,1/2     left, vertical-center
.fi

.TP 8
\fBbackground \fP or \fBgc-background\fP
Allows setting the background color. Argument must as valid color specification.
Example:
.br
.I background red
.TP 8
.B draw-arc
Draws an arc. The four first arguments are the rectangle enclosing the arc.
The two remaining arguments, if any, are the start and end angle, in degrees.
Example:
.br
.I draw-arc +0,+0,-1,-1,0,90
.TP 8
.B draw-lines
Draws a list of lines. Any number of arguments may be supplied. Example:
.br
.I draw-lines +0,-1,-1,-1,-1,+0
.TP 8
\fBdraw-rect\fP or \fBdraw-rectangle\fP
Draws a rectangle. Requires four arguments, that are the start and end
coordinates. Example:
.br
.I draw-rect +1,+1,-5,-5
.TP 8
.B fill-arc
Like \fIdraw-arc\fP, but fills the contents of the arc with the currently
selected foreground. Example:
.br
.I draw-arc +0,+0,-1,-1,0,180
.TP 8
\fBfill-poly\fP or \fBfill-polygon\fP
Like \fIdraw-lines\fP, but fills the enclosed polygon and joins the first
and last point, if they are not at the same position. Example:
.br
.I fill-poly +0,+10,+10,+20,+30,+0
.TP
\fBfill-rect\fP or \fBfill-rectangle\fP
Like \fIdraw-rect\fP, but fills the contents of the rectangle with the
selected foreground color. Example:
.br
.I draw-rect +10,+10,-20,-20
.TP 8
\fBforeground\fP or \fBgc-foreground\fP
Like \fIbackground\fP, but sets the current foreground color. Example:
.br
.I foreground blue
.TP 8
.B gc-mask
This command is useful when you want to draw only in the region that really
needs to be repainted. Requires no arguments.
.TP 8
.B gc-umask
Disables the gc mask, when it was set with the command \fIgc-mask\fP.
Requires no arguments.
.TP 8
\fBline\fP or \fBdraw-line\fP
Draws a line with the current foreground color. Require two arguments. Example:
.br
.I line +0,+0,-1,-1
.TP 8
\fBline-width\fP or \fBgc-line-width\fP
Allow selecting a different line width for the drawing. Example:
.br
.I line-width 2

.PP
Example for drawing a shadow effect in a widget:
.nf
foreground gray30;\\
draw-lines +1,-1,-1,-1,-1,+1;\\
foreground gray85;\\
draw-lines -1,+0,+0,+0,+0,-1
.fi

.SH PIXMAPS
A String to Pixmap converter was added to \fBXaw\fP. This converter is meant to
be extended, and has enough abstraction to allow loading several image formats.
It uses a format that resembles a \fIURL\fP, with the sintax:
.br
.I [type:]name[?arg=val[{&}...]]
.br
\fBType\fP actually can be one of \fIbitmap\fP, \fIgradient\fP or \fIxpm\fP
(if your Xaw library was compiled with XPM support).
.br
\fBName\fP may be a file name, or, in the case of type \fIgradient\fP, may be
either \fIvertical\fP or \fIhorizontal\fP.
.br
\fBArg=val\fP is a list of arguments to the converter. The most common arguments
are \fIforeground\fP and \fIbackground\fP. Gradients supports also the arguments
\fIstart\fP and \fIend\fP (colors to start and end the gradient); the
\fPsteps\fP argument, to allow using less colors; and the \fIsize\fP argument
to specify the size of the gradient. The \fIxpm\fP converter understands the
\fIcloseness\fP argument, that helps using less colors (useful if you have a
limited colormap).

.SH TEXT WIDGET
Most of the changes to this version of the Xaw library were done in the
TextWidget, TextSrcObject, TextSinkObject and related files. The text widget
is based in the emacs text editor. In this release, the emacs compatibility
was increased. New text actions include:
.TP 8
.B indent
This action allow indenting text blocks. It is not enabled by default. A
translation to call this action was added to the \fIxedit\fP editor, binded to
\fIControl<Key>X,<Key>Tab\fP.
.TP 8
.B keyboard-reset
Resets the keyboard state. Reverts the multiply to 1, and if undo is enabled,
toggle between undo and redo. Binded by default to \fIControl<Key>G\fP.
.TP 8
.B kill-ring-yank
In this version of Xaw, text killed in any text field is kept in memory,
allowing to cut and paste internally to the program between text fields.
The default key binding to this actions is \fIMeta<Key>Y\fP.
.TP 8
.B numeric
Listed here only for purposes of documentation. It is called by default when
one of the characters \fI1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0,\fP or \fI-\fP is typed,
allowing composing the multiplication number of text actions.
.TP 8
.B set-keyboard-focus
This action is normally binded to the \fI<Btn1Down>\fP event. Will set the input
focus on the top level widget to the text field. Not enabled by default.
.TP 8
.B toggle-overwrite
This action toggles overwrite mode. In overwrite mode, any text inserted in
a text field will replace existing text. Normally binded to \fI<Key>Insert\fP.
.TP 8
.B undo
Binded by default to \fIControl<Key>_\fP, will call the undo function. Undo is
not enabled by default. It is enabled setting the \fIenableUndo\fP resource of
the textSrcObject.

.PP
The new text resources include:
.TP 8
.B justify (\fPClass\fB Justify)
Sets the text justification. Can be one of \fIleft, right, center\fP or
\fIfull\fP. Only enabled when the \fIautoFill\fP resource is set, and the
resources \fIleftColumn\fP and \fIrightColumn\fP are correctly set.
.TP 8
.B leftColumn (\fPClass\fB Column)
Specifies the left column to break text. Text lines started with a alphanumeric
character will automatically start at this column.
.TP 8
.B positionCallback (\fPClass\fB Callback)
Allows installing a callback that will be called every time the cursor is
moved and/or the file change its size. The callback is called with a pointer
containing the following data:
.nf
typedef struct {
    int line_number;
    int column_number;
    XawTextPosition insert_position;
    XawTextPosition last_position;
    Boolean overwrite_mode;
} XawTextPositionInfo;
.fi
This callback is intended to help programmers to write text editors based on
the Xaw widget set.
.TP 8
.B rightColumn (\fPClass\fB Column)
Specifies the right column to break text. Text lines started with a alphanumeric
character will automatically end at this column.

.SH TEXT SOURCE OBJECT
The textSrcObject was modified to allow showing its contents in more than one
window, and also store undo information. The new resources for the textSrcObject
are:
.TP 8
.B callback (\fPClass\fB Callback)
Previous versions of Xaw had this resource in the subclasses. This was changed
to make it possible to tell the callback the state of the text, when undo is
enabled.
.TP 8
.B enableUndo (\fPClass\fB Undo)
A boolean resource, that enables or disables the undo function. The default
value is False.
.TP 8
.B sourceChanged (\fPClass\fB Changed)
Like the callback resource, it was on the subclasses on previous versions. Now
it is in the textSrcObject to control the changed/unchanged state, when undo
is enabled.

.SH TEXT SINK OBJECT
The textSinkObject subclasses asciiSinkObject and multiSinkObject were slightly
changed to offer a new cursor shape, that indicates the input focus of the
text widget and allow setting its color. The new resource is:
.TP 8
.B cursorColor (\fPClass\fB Color)
Allows setting the cursor color of the text. This color is also used to draw
selected text.

.SH SIMPLE MENU WIDGET
The simpleMenuWidget algorithm to lay out menu entries was changed to
enable multiple columns when one single column does not fit in the screen.
It was also modified to enable sub menus.

.SH SME BSB OBJECT
A new resource was added to the smeBSBObject, to allow binding sub menus to
it. The new resource is:
.TP 8
.B menuName (\fPClass\fB MenuName)
The name of the popup widget to be popped up when the pointer is over the
menu entry, or NULL. Note that the named menu must be a child of the popup
parent of the smeBSBObject.

.SH RESTRICTIONS
.B Xaw
is actually being actively worked. Programs intending  to be compatible with
future releases of the  Xaw library should  use only the  public interfaces.
While  widget  subclassification  is  not a bad, and  some  times encouraged
programming practice,  programs  that  access  private data  structures  are
unlikely to be binary compatible  with newer releases, in  the current stage
of the
.I Xaw
development.

.SH AUTHORS
The XFree86 additions and modifications to \fIXaw\fR,  were written by Paulo
César Pereira de Andrade
