.\" $XFree86$
.\" Copyright (c) 1984 - 1991, 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\" 
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.TH lbxproxy 1 "Release 6"  "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
lbxproxy \- LBX proxy server for the X Window System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lbxproxy
[:displaynumber] [option ...]
.SH NOTE
This manual page is not definitive or ``official''.  It is derived from
information contained in the \fBREADME\fP file in the lbx source.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I lbxproxy
is the Low Bandwidth X pseudo-server.  It runs on the remote side of low
bandwidth, high-latency connections (e.g., serial lines and wide-area
network).  It accepts connections from X clients at the remote end and
forwards them to an X server at the local end.  The LBX protocol used for
the low bandwidth connection includes compression and optimisations
designed to make effective use of the bandwidth availble.  The current
version of LBX is \fBNOT\fP a standard of the X Consortium, and will
\fBNOT\fP be compatible with the final version.  The current version
should be treated as an ``alpha'' or ``prototype'' for people interested
in experimenting with it.
.SH OPTIONS
.I lbxproxy
accepts the following options
.TP 8
.B :\fIdisplaynumber\fP
.I lbxproxy
runs as the given \fIdisplaynumber\fP, which by default is 0.  A value
different from 0 should be used if the host running
.I lbxproxy
has a local X display.
If multiple 
.I lbxproxy
servers or other X servers are to run simultaneously on a host, each must have
a unique display number.  See the DISPLAY
NAMES section of the \fIX(1)\fP manual page to learn how to specify
which display number clients should try to use.
.TP 8
.B \-ac
disables host-based access control mechanisms.  Enables access by any host,
and permits any host to modify the access control list.
Use with extreme caution.
This option exists primarily for running test suites remotely.
.TP 8
.B -display \fIdisplay-number\fP
sets the name of the X server display that
.I lbxproxy
connects to.
.TP 8
.B \-help
prints a usage message.
.TP 8
.B \-I
causes all remaining command line arguments to be ignored.
.TP 8
.B \-to \fIseconds\fP
sets default connection timeout in seconds.
.SH "NETWORK CONNECTIONS"
.I lbxproxy
supports client connections via most of the connection types supported
by the X servers (refer to the \fIXserver(1)\fP and hardware-specific
X server manual pages for details).  Note that in the current implementation
some of the conenctions types have not been implemented correctly.
This mostly applies to System V.
.SH EXAMPLES
To setup \fIlbxproxy\fP, start the X server as usual, and then start the
proxy.  The lbxproxy is a pseudo-server, so any clients that wish to use
it need to adjust their \fBDISPLAY\fP.  By default, the proxy will listen
on <hostname>:1.  This can be changed with the `:displaynumber' argument.
.PP
If the proxy is to be running on a host named `sharedhost', connecting
to an LBX-capable X server on a desktop machine named `mydesktop', you
could use the following command to start the proxy (which would be
known as display `sharedhost:7'):
.PP
.nf
  mydesktop%  rlogin sharedhost
  sharedhost% lbxproxy -display mydesktop:0 :7 &
  sharedhost% xclient -display sharedhost:7
.ni
.PP
If you are running LBX over a TERM connection between `mydesktop' and
`sharedhost', try something like this:
.PP
.nf
  mydesktop%  trsh
  sharedhost% tredir -r 6008 6000
  sharedhost% lbxproxy -display sharedhost:8 :7 &
  sharedhost% xclient -display sharedhost:7
.ni
.SH "SEE ALSO"
General information: X(1)
.PP
Server-specific man pages: 
Xserver(1), Xdec(1), XmacII(1), Xsun(1), Xnest(1), Xvfb(1),
XF86_Acc(1), XF86_Mono(1), XF86_SVGA(1), XF86_VGA16(1), XFree86(1)
.SH AUTHORS
The LBX team includes Dave Lemke, Dale Tonogai, Keith Packard and
Jim Fulton from NCD, and Chris Kanterjiev from Xerox.
