.\" $XFree86: xc/programs/xvidtune/xvidtune.man,v 3.3 1995/06/08 06:56:05 dawes Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995  Kaleb S. KEITHLEY
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\" 
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL Kaleb S. KEITHLEY BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of Kaleb S. KEITHLEY shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from Kaleb S. KEITHLEY.
.\"
.TH xvidtune 1 "Release 6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xvidtune \- video mode tuner for XFree86
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xvidtune
[-prev] [-next] [-unlock]
[
.I \-toolkitoption
\&.\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Xvidtune is an interactive video mode tuner for XFree86 X servers.
It presents the user with various buttons and sliders that can be
used to adjust existing video modes.
It will also print the settings in a format suitable for inclusion
in an XF86Config file.
.PP
The available buttons are:
.PP
.nf
.B Left
.B Right
.B Up
.B Down
.fi
.RS 10
Adjust the video mode so that the display will be moved in the
appropriate direction.
.RE
.PP
.nf
.B Wider
.B Narrower
.B Shorter
.B Taller
.fi
.RS 10
Adjust the video mode so that the display size is altered
appropriately.
.RE
.TP 10
.B Quit
Exit the program.
.TP 10
.B Show
Print the currently selected settings to stdout in XF86Config
"Modeline" format.
.TP 10
.B Apply
Adjust the current video mode to match the selected settings.
.TP 10
.B Auto
Cause the Up/Down/Right/Left and Wider/Narrower/Shorter/Taller
buttons to be applied immediately.  This button can be toggled.
.TP 10
.B Test
Temporarily switch to the selected settings.
.TP 10
.B Restore
Return the settings to their original values.
.TP 10
.B Next
Switch the Xserver to the next video mode.
.TP 10
.B Prev
Switch the Xserver to the previous video mode.
.SH OPTIONS
\fIxvidtune\fP accepts the standard X Toolkit command line options as well
as the following:
.TP 10
.B \-prev
Switch the Xserver to the previous video mode.
.TP 10
.B \-next
Switch the Xserver to the next video mode.
.TP 10
.B \-unlock
Normally, \fIxvidtune\fP will disable the switching of video modes
via hot-keys while it is running.  If for some reason the program
did not exit cleanly and they are still disabled, the program can
be re-run with this option to re-enable the mode switching key
combinations.
.SH SEE ALSO
XF86Config(4/5)
.SH AUTHORS
Kaleb S. Keithley, X Consortium.
